Prebid parakeet (#1)
brodrigu/prebid-td: README.md

> # prebid-parakeet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Parakeet in Prebid.js

```

> An exploration of the role Prebid can play in a Parakeet world.

Reviewer: You should insert a ToC here with all of the links to the headers to make it easier to navigate

Author: is there a shortcut to doing that or does it need to be compiled manually?

> ## Birth of Header Bidding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Birth of Header Bidding

```

As DFP (now GAM) became the dominant ad server (and included tight AdX integration) publishers wanted a way to have other demand sources compete in the GAM/AdX ad selection process. While GAM/AdX didn't provide an API to do this, publishers did have the ability create their own line items in DFP that were considered in the selection process. Futhermore, they could activate these line items based on key/value pairs added to the DFP tag invocation. The final step was figuring out how to solicit an independent SSP and map their bid to the right key/value. Soliciting the SSP in the header of the page allowed the bid to be retrieved and mapped to a key/value before the DFP ad slot was fetched. And thus header bidding was born.

> ## Birth of Prebid.js

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Birth of Prebid.js

```

Publishers saw a significant benefit from having a single SSP compete with DFP/AdX and the next step was to have multiple SSPs compete. While SSPs provided libraries that made it easy to do header bidding, they all had their own implementation and they weren't designed to work well together. Furthermore, there were different strategies for creating line items, mapping K/V pairs to line items, naming line items, and the creative that triggered the serving of a cached SSP creative. Very sophisticated publishers were capable of writing their own javascript solutions that managed these complexities, as well as paying for AdOps folks to manage the setup in DFP, but it was error prone and expensive. Prebid.js provided a standardized way of integrating with DFP, the publisher's page, and SSPs (who provided adapters that mapped their ad calls and bids to the Prebid standard).

> ## Side note: Why Multiple SSPs?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Side Note: Why Multiple SSPs?

```

There are many reasons why a Publisher is best served by working with multiple SSPs.

> ### Side side note: First Price Auction (1PA) vs Second Price Auction (2PA)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Side-side Note: First Price Auction (1PA) vs. Second Price Auction (2PA)

```

If the industry wants to return to a second price auction dynamic, then DSPs will need to submit more bids to SSPs, and SSPs may also need to submit more bids to the final decision layer. This will insure that the bid density is high enough for a true value to be determined.

> ## Why Prebid.js works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why Prebid.js Works

```

> ### ... for Publishers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### …for Publishers

```

**Prebid.js works for publishers because it enables greater competition and avoids vendor lock-in.**

> ### ... for SSPs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### …for SSPs

```

> In short, **Prebid.js works for SSPs because there is transparency, control, and accountability.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**In short, Prebid.js works for SSPs because there is transparency, control, and accountability.**
```

> ## Prebid.js Today

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prebid.js Today

```

Hopefully this diagram helps show how a Publisher using Prebid.js is able to integrate other SSPs into GAM.

> ## Parakeet and Ad Selection 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Parakeet and Ad Selection

```

> While Parakeet proposes a number of changes to how ad tech will function, this document is focused on the changes to the ad selection process in the context of the browser and/or browsers trusted server agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While Parakeet proposes a number of changes to how ad tech will function, this document is focused on the changes to the ad selection process in the context of the browser(s) trusted server agent.
```

Author: this changes the meaning from "browser and its trusted server" to "browser's trusted server" which is not what I want. Point taken about existing wording not being great. I'll revise.

Reviewer: it changes it to mean it could be either "browser" or "browsers"

Author: yes, which I take to mean one or more browsers trusted server, not browser or browser trusted server

> ## 1. Edge/Parakeet Server Becomes the Final Selection Layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Edge/Parakeet Server Becomes the Final Selection Layer

```

Author: y u no like numbers?

> Today GAM is the final ad selection layer because it contains the publisher's direct demand, is tightly integrated with AdX, and doesn't provide a price signal externally. However, in a Parakeet world, Edge will contain interest group demand that isn't accessible via any other means and won't provide a price signal externally. When ```navigator.createAdRequest``` returns a promise it has identified an appropriate ad for rendering based on provided bids and scoring logic. As a result, the browser/Parakeet must become the final selection layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today GAM is the final ad selection layer because it contains the publisher's direct demand, is tightly integrated with AdX, and doesn't provide a price signal externally. However, in a Parakeet world, Edge will contain interest group demand that isn't accessible via any other means but still won't provide a price signal externally. When `navigator.createAdRequest` returns a Promise, it has identified an appropriate ad for rendering based on provided bids and scoring logic. As a result, Edge/Parakeet must become the final selection layer.
```

SSPs are used to participating in a final selection hosted elsewhere but it raises the question of how GAM will adjust to this.

<!-- The below may not be valid in Parakeet, but we should note something about the limitation of data in the contextual request and how the browser will only call a single ad tech server per ad slot

> ## 2. SSP Logic Must Span Edge/Parakeet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### SSP Logic Must Span Edge/Parakeet

```

> Today SSPs are able to provide publishers with a realtime valuation of an ad slot because they have contextual and user information in one request and are able to respond with a single *best* value in response to that request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today SSPs are able to provide publishers with a real-time valuation of an ad slot because they have contextual and user information in one request and are able to respond with a single *best* value in response to that request.
```

> The process of selecting a best value involves the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of selecting the best value involves the following steps:

```

4) Valuation - which bid is most valuable to the publisher at this moment?

This process must now be split across the SSPs and the browser (for IG bids), which means that an SSP will no longer know what an ad slot is worth in realtime (nor will the publisher).
-->

> ## Prebid in a Parakeet World

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prebid.js in a Parakeet World

```

For the contextual ad selection process, Prebid.js can continue to function in the same manner as today. Here's what that looks like:

![Prebid.js Sequence Diagram](out/prebid_td_context/prebid_td_context.png)

However, the browser will also contain user interest group memberships which could increase the value of the ad to a buyer. The Parakeet server will carefully select which IGs can be used in server side ad selection to ensure user privacy.

The Parakeet server will only make an ad request to a single ad tech partner for each ad slot. Therefore, publishers who wish to work with multiple SSPs will need to leverage a server to fan-out requests to each SSP and choose the most appropriate bid to compete with the ad server chosen contextual ad. Prebid server already performs a similar operation and could be extended to handle this responsibiliy.

> ## Prebid IG Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prebid.js IG Flow

```

Author: this flow describes both prebid server and prebid.js

Here's what that looks like in a flow diagram:

![Prebid-pk.js Sequence Diagram](out/prebid_pk_interest/prebid_pk_interest.png)

1. Pub invokes final selection process in Prebid.js
2. Prebid selects/looks up contextual winner

> 3. Prebid invokes ```navigator.createAdRequest``` with winning contextual bid as floor, maybe some other stuff

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Prebid invokes `navigator.createAdRequest` with winning contextual bid as the floor, maybe some other stuff
```

4. Edge sends request to Parakeet server including anonymized ad interests, IP Addresss, User Agent, and contextual parameters
5. Parakeet server further sanitizes the ad request and forwards to prebid server including anonymized versions of: ad interests, IP address, User Agent, and context
6. Prebid server users context (likely a stored request ID) to look up publisher configuration and send ad requests to specified exchanges with all available info (as openRTB request)
7. Exchanges make bid requests to DSPs including anonymized user/interest data
8. DSPs return bids
9. Exchanges run auction and return best bid to Prebid server
10. Prebid server evaluates all bids and chooses a single bid to return to Parakeet
11. Prebid server returns best bid to Parakeet
12. Parakeet server compares best bid from prebid server with best contextual ad
13. Parakeet server returns winning ad to Edge
14. Edge returns opaque object for rendering if winner, or returns false (if context is winner)
15. IG Bid Winner

>     1. ```navigator.createAdRequest``` returns opaque object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. `navigator.createAdRequest` returns opaque object
```

    2. Prebid record IG win
    3. Prebid passes opaque object to a fenced frame for rendering
16. Context Bid Winner

>     1. ```navigator.createAdRequest``` returns false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. `navigator.createAdRequest` returns false
```

    2. Prebid renders contextual ad
    3. Prebid records contextual win
17. Ad has rendered

As can be seen in the sequence diagram above, the Parakeet API is invoked by Prebid which is also responsible for constructing the arguments.

## Open Questions

> 1. Who operates the parakeet server and can all parties trust them?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1. Who operates the parakeet server and can all parties trust them?**

```

> The default operator in the proposal seems to be the browser vender, who primarily represents and is trusted by the user. However, Buyers and Sellers will need to trust the Parakeet server to protect their proprietary data from being leaked. The [Garuda](https://darobin.github.io/garuda/) proposal provides a possible governance/trust model but Microsoft has not commited to something like this and it may be up to each browser vendor to make their own decision on how to run the trusted server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default operator in the proposal seems to be the browser vendor, who primarily represents and is trusted by the user. However, Buyers and Sellers will need to trust the Parakeet server to protect their proprietary data from being leaked. The [Garuda](https://darobin.github.io/garuda/) proposal provides a possible governance/trust model but Microsoft has not committed to something like this and it may be up to each browser vendor to make their own decision on how to run a trusted server.
```

> 2. How will GAM interact with the Parakeet API?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2. How will GAM interact with the Parakeet API?**

```

> How will GAM integrate into the final selection layer in the browser and will it help or hinder SSPs? If GAM were to provide an an API/adapter that integrated with Prebid.js this would be a good thing. If, on the other hand, GAM provides a tag library that directly invokes ```navigator.createAdRequest``` without allowing other SSPs to participate this would be bad.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How will GAM integrate into the final selection layer in the browser and will it help or hinder SSPs? If GAM were to provide an an API/adapter that integrated with Prebid.js this would be a good thing. If, on the other hand, GAM provides a tag library that directly invokes `navigator.createAdRequest` without allowing other SSPs to participate this would be bad.
```

> ## Where are we?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Where Are We?

```

> The Parakeet workflow fits much easier into the way adtech works today. DSPs and SSPs can continue to operate server-side decisioning based on available data at ad-request time. However, the quantity and granularity of data available in Parakeet will have to be lower than would could be available in something like Turtledove/Fledge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Parakeet workflow fits much easier into the way Ad Tech works today. DSPs and SSPs can continue to operate server-side decision-making based on available data at the ad-request time. However, the quantity and granularity of data available in Parakeet will have to be lower than would be available in something like Turtledove/Fledge.
```
